This was as much
as I could afford,
but I hope you'll like it.
[SATOKO] My! I'm shaking
with anticipation!
Huh?
[RENA]
Satoko?
How could you have known
what was in this box?
[chortles]
I am shocked that
you would even attempt
such an obvious ploy against
the undisputed trap master
of our game club!
[SATOKO gasps]
[RIKA] It's true that I had been
planning to play a prank on you
with this gift,
up until last night.
I decided to trade it
for something I knew
would make you happy.
I'll ask again.
How could you have known that?
[gasps]
[MION]
Whoa!
Guys, what is this?
[SATOKO] Of all the
things to give it away.
[MION]
Satoko‐‐
[RENA shudders]
No!
[RIKA gasping]
[hyperventilating]
Nice of you to join us, Rika!
It seems as if you're waking up
from one of your
nightmares, yet again.
Is there something wrong?
[RIKA]
My nightmares? You're lying!
Every moment of that was real!
And it all happened because of‐‐
[squelch]
[SATOKO]
Happened because of who?
You think you can blame
everything on me?
It's not my fault.
It's not my fault!
It's yours. All of it!
[RIKA screams]
Why? How could you?
How could I? You made me!
You brought it all on yourself
by dreaming of running
off to St. Lucia!
Don't blame me! Blame yourself!
And your own stupid dream!
Rika!
Sick of your
quaint hometown, huh?
[SATOKO] You wanna find out
what high society is like?
What's wrong with Hinamizawa?
What are you trying
to get away from?
Why don't you
care about Keiichi?
What about Rena?
And Mion! And Shion!
What about me? I'm here!
Weren't we enough for you?
Weren't you happy?
I know you were, Rika!
[SATOKO] So why did you
want out so badly?
What's so good
about St. Lucia?
Satoko.
[SATOKO]
You know they'd look down on us!
A gaudy campus
full of boring rich girls?
That's what you're
leaving us for?
You said you hated studying,
but you tortured yourself!
That's how much you
wanted us to get in together!
And you said
you'd stick with me.
You promised you'd
never leave me alone!
Rika, you liar.
You vile filthy liar!
[RIKA]
You're calling me a liar?
[MAN A]
The hell's goin' on?
[MAN B] The Hojo girl's
committing blasphemy!
What's Satoko doing?
That's not right!
Is this a part of the dance?
'Cause it feels way different.
Obviously not!
What lie do you
think I told you?
Out with it!
Everything you've
been saying is nonsense!
[MAN G] The whole shrine
could burn down!
[MAN H]
What do we do?
[MAN I]
Why are they fighting up there?
[MAN J] Water! We need
to put this out right now!
Get a hose out here!
[SHION gasps]
Mion!
Both of you,
get away from the fire!
[RIKA] So, I'm wrong
for wanting to experience
something different in my life?
That's what this is about?
You don't wanna go somewhere
you'll have to study?
Rika!
You're just afraid of hard work.
Don't try to blame that on me!
[STUDENT A]
Did Lady Rika really just...
[SATOKO] You tried to ride a
unicycle and walk on stilts,
but you failed
every time, right?
And what about it?
This is like that for me!
It doesn't matter
how much I study.
It's not going to help me!
[STUDENT B]
Get a teacher!
Do you get it yet?
I hate studying!
I hate it. I hate it.
I hate, hate, hate it so much!
That's why I'm going
to keep dragging you
out of bed to study.
Because I know
that's what it will take!
You and I are going to get into
St. Lucia Academy together!
That has always been my dream!
[SATOKO]
I know it has.
And that's why I did
my best to play along!
[SATOKO]
But you abandoned me.
Once we got there,
you tossed me aside
like I meant nothing to you!
You swore you'd stay with me!
Abandoned you?
How many dozen times
did I reach out to you
to offer help
when we were there?
[SATOKO]
Sure.
For a while, you did.
You gave me up for tea
with your stupid fangirls!
That's a lie.
I tried to invite you,
but you refused to
even give them a chance!
I was just trying to give you
enough space to make new friends
at the hoity‐toity school
of your dreams!
[RIKA]
I never told you I wanted space!
And you never asked me!
I stopped helping you study
because you shut me out.
And yet somehow
that makes it my fault
that you were pulled out
of the main program?
Of course, it was your fault.
You dragged me someplace
I never belonged,
just to make your
stupid dream come true!
You were old enough
to be in high school.
How long does it take
to learn study skills?
How many times are you
gonna make me tell you this?
I despise studying!
Even so...
I just wanted...
[BOTH]
...to be with you!
In Hinamizawa!
At St. Lucia Academy!
[BOTH]
You were all I needed!
[EUA laughs]
Whatever remnants of
ennui may yet fester within me
could hardly endure
this spectacle!
[laughs]
I advise you to stop.
[yells]
What, precisely,
did you intend to do,
had you broken free
of your bonds?
Surely you bore no delusion
that you could
shatter the very mold
from which you
were so shoddily cast.
There are many aspects
of me that failed
to manifest
in your making.
Put simply, I possess
much that you lack,
and lack nothing you possess.
And as such, your defeat
at my hands is all but certain.
You're wrong.
There is a power
that can snatch victory
even from the jaws
of certain defeat.
Oh? Do tell!
The power of miracles!
If what you call "certainty"
can be undone by a miracle,
then that which is "certain"
cannot remain
"certain" indefinitely!
[EUA]
Hmph.
Then by all means,
show me this miracle of yours.
Do that and I shall admit defeat
and bring our game to an end
without a moment's hesitation.
[HANYUU]
Rika! It's up to you now!
Grant me this miracle!
[SATOKO]
How are you this stubborn?
Do you not understand how hard
you've been making
things for me?
[RIKA] It's no fun hearing you
talk when you're like this.
Where are the theatrics?
What happened
to the obnoxious laugh?
[SATOKO]
Like you have any room to talk.
What happened to sweet little
Rika and her easygoing smile?
[RIKA] As much as I hate to say
it, this is who I really am now.
You know how it is
for us, don't you?
[SATOKO]
I do, indeed.
[RIKA] I'd never have
guessed that you and I
could have the same power.
[SATOKO]
What a wonderful blessing.
I love this power!
You call me stubborn?
And who are you to talk?
[SATOKO]
You're exactly right!
And that's why I'll never.
Ever.
Ever let you get away!
[RIKA]
If this is real...
If you're living
in loops like me...
[RIKA] ...then I know
what can kill you.
What are you trying to do?
Is that‐‐
[RIKA]
Onigari‐no‐Ryuuou a sacred sword
that can end the lives
of those who live in loops.
[gasps]
Great, how sloppy of me.
[RIKA]
This was a gift.
A gift I never wanted.
The last thing Hanyuu
left behind for me!
You can keep that.
I assure you this sword
will certainly still work.
[RIKA] So, you were
the one who took it.
[SATOKO]
Now then, Rika.
Yes, it's time.
[SATOKO]
The real battle starts now.
Not bad, Rika!
You know, this all vaguely
reminds me of the time in club
when I secured
my victory by burying you
under a mountain of wash basins!
And if you hadn't set that trap,
you never could have beaten me!
[SATOKO chortles]
No such opportunities
this time but there's no need.
Traps or no traps,
I will defeat you!
[RIKA]
Club rule number two!
Remember? "Do all you can
to claim victory!"
Enough of that!
It's time to stop
being a sore loser!
Do you really
believe you can beat me?
[RIKA] No matter how deep
I might sink into despair
and no matter how many times
I may find myself at a dead end.
Fate can still be changed.
The future is not decided!
[RIKA] Onigari‐no‐Ryuuou
is whole again!
[EUA laughs]
Are you witnessing all of this,
O lesser part of me?
They both live in loops and yet,
they once again grapple with
the prospect of a final death.
Indeed, they grapple for
the power to inflict it.
But for either to exercise it,
upon herself or the other,
would be to forfeit her prize.
Each of them is vying
for a life with the other
but neither can abide the
other's vision of that life!
The bitter irony of it all!
The spectacle they make,
tearing into each other in
the darkness of their ignorance!
[laughs]
What greater entertainment
could there be?
[laughs]
[SATOKO] When will you
accept the fight is over?
[RIKA]
When I've won!
[SATOKO] If you won't yield,
then what about this?
Why don't we just die together?
Right here and now.
[RIKA]
You're willing to accept that?
Then, why stop there?
Why shouldn't we take everyone
else with us when we go?
We can set off a new Big Bang
and wipe this
whole universe clean!
If that's what it's
going to take to keep you
from getting your way,
then I'll do it!
[gasps]
[RIKA]
Satoko!
Fine, you win.
Don't hesitate.
Erase me from your world
and be done with it.
Everything would work
out fine for you.
You'll have no
trouble fitting in
with the well‐bred young ladies
of St. Lucia Academy.
[RIKA]
That doesn't sound bad at all.
[EUA]
Is she going to kill Satoko?
No, surely she wouldn't.
So, what will she do?
[laughs]
Imagine if the cat were
to take her own life!
[laughs]
[EUA]
Is your miracle quite ready yet?
If it is, then use it, quickly.
And if not, then disappear.
I would ask you to leave
no trace of yourself.
[RIKA] Next time:
"Kagurashi‐hen, Part 4."